# Event to Flow

**Event to Flow** agents receive asynchronous events and use the configured flow to process the event. For this type of agent, the flow must contain at least one "Event Start" node and one or more "Event End" and/or "Event Error" nodes.

**Event Start Nodes** — The event start node in a flow is considered an "entry point" in the flow where the execution of the event begins. A single flow can actually have multiple event start nodes, and the agent itself it configured to tell the runtime which event start node should be used for that specific agent.

**Event End Nodes** — Because Contextual flows can process events asynchronously within the flow itself, they have the ability to handle multiple data streams through the same logic concurrently, or to branch off and process the same data in various ways at the same time.

Given this capability, it is crucial that these flows include a clearly defined "Event End" node. This "Event End" node indicates to the runtime environment that the flow execution has been completed. This ensures that all processing paths within the flow are properly terminated and that resources are efficiently managed.

**Event Error Nodes —** Similarly, an "Event Error" node signals that an error has occurred in the processing of the flow. Like the Event End node, the Event Error node also terminates the execution of the flow. However when a flow terminates on an Event Error node, the logs for the execution of the flow are categories as an "error" so that they can be easily found and analyzed.
